# Counting Matches

Imagine being handed a matchbox filled with an unknown number of matches. Your challenge is to discern the quantity inside solely by the sound produced when shaken. A dauting task, indeed!

This repository is dedicated to working on this challenge. Here, you'll find the theoretical foundation behind the physics of this problem, and use it to explain further limitations of our method, that will be developed using a machine learning algorithm.

 ## Entropy and randomness
 When a box is shaken, a multitude of events can occur. This is due to the inherent chaotic nature of the system, where the behavior of the matches is solely dependent on their initial positions within the box. The sound that we hear is primarily generated by the dissipation of energy through collisions within the box. These collisions can occur between the matches themselves or between the matches and the box.

The amount of energy dissipated during a collision can vary, and this variation is quantified by the restitution coefficient. While the majority of the sound is produced through this energy dissipation during collisions, there are other sources of sound as well. For instance, the rolling of the matches within the box can also contribute to the overall sound.

Given the highly chaotic nature of this system, our approach to understanding it will be through the lens of statistical mechanics. We can describe the number of microstates of the system as:

 $$\Omega_T = \Omega_E \Omega_L \Omega_{\theta}$$

 Where:\
 $\Omega_E$ Stands for the energy of the matches(mostly kinetic) \
 $\Omega_L$ Stands for the linear positions\
 $\Omega_{\theta}$ Stands for the angular positions

 And with that, we can denote the total entropy of the system as:

 $$S = k_b \ln{\Omega_T}$$

 When defining the number of microstates of positions (linear or angular), one could say that there would be an infinite number of positions, since we are dealing with a three dimentional problem, and it is indeed true! But we have to remember that our measurements tools don't have infinite precision, so our positions are going to be limited by an uncertainty factor:

 $\Omega_L = \dfrac{x}{\Delta x} \dfrac{y}{\Delta y} \dfrac{z}{\Delta z}$

 $\Omega_{\theta} = \dfrac{\theta_x}{\Delta \theta_x} \dfrac{\theta_y}{\Delta \theta_y} \dfrac{\theta_z}{\Delta \theta_z}$

